Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
So, in the last section of the course,
we trained our artificial neural network twice
and we noticed that the second time,
we obtained a lower accuracy,
both on the training set and the test set
than the first time.
And so, that introduces us to the Bias-Variance Tradeoff.
The Bias-Variance Tradeoff is the fact that
we're trying to train a model
that will not only be accurate,
but also that should not have too much variance of accuracy,
when we train it several times.
And what happened for our artificial neural network?
Well, we trained it twice
and we obtained two different accuracies,
86% first and then 84%,
and so now we are not very sure
which one of these two accuracies we should take
to evaluate our models performance.
And so, we need to optimize our way to evaluate our models.
Because so far what we did
is split our data set between a training set
and a test set
and you know we trained our model on the training set
and we tested it's performance on the test set.
That's a correct way of evaluating the model performance,
but that's not the best one.
Because, we actual have the Variance Problem.
The Variance problem can be explained by the fact that
when we get the accuracy on the test set,
well, if we run the model again
and test again it's performance on another test set,
well, we can get a very different accuracy.
So, judging our model performance only on one accuracy
on one test set,
is actually not super relevant.
That's not the most relevant way,
to evaluate the model performance.
And so there is this technique called
K-Fold Cross Validation that improves this a lot.
Because, that will fix this variance problem.
And how will it fix it?
It will fix it by splitting the training set into 10 folds
when K equals 10, and most of the time, K equals 10.
And we train our model on 9-folds
and we test it on the last remaining fold.
And since with 10-folds
we can make ten different combinations of 9-folds
to train a model and 1-fold to test it.
That means that we can train the model
and test the model on ten combinations
of training and test sets.
And that will already give us a much better idea
of the model performance because,
what we can do afterwards, is take an average
of the different accuracies of the ten evaluations
and also compute the standard deviation
to have a look at the variance.
So eventually, our analysis will be much more relevant.
And besides,
we'll know which in these four categories we'll be
because, if we get a good accuracy on a small variance,
we'll be on the lower left one.
If we get a large accuracy and a high variance,
we will be on the lower right one.
If we get a small accuracy and a low variance,
we will be on the upper left one
and eventually if we get a low accuracy and a high variance
we will be on the upper right one.
So, this K-fold cross validation is very useful
and besides, our performance analysis is much more relevant.
Alright, so let's implement here K-fold cross validation.
So, as you saw I just restarted my kernel
because actually when we run K-fold cross validation
well we don't need to re-execute this part
because actually we will include this part
in K-fold cross validation.
However we do need to run the data pre-processing phase
because of course we need to import the data set
and pre-process it since it will be part of the multiple
training in K-fold cross validation.
So, we just need to re-execute the code
for part 1 data pre-processing.
So here we go.
Now the data pre-processing is done
and we're ready to implement K-fold cross validation
and get a much more relevant accuracy on the test set.
Alright, so here we go.
Let's implement K-fold cross validation.
So, what do we start with ?
Well the tricky thing is that here,
we implemented a model with Keras
and the K-fold cross validation function that we'll use,
belongs to Scikit-learn,
and therefore we need to, in some way,
combine Keras and Scikit-learn together.
And there is the perfect module for it
and that belongs to Keras.
Its a Keras wrapper
that will wrap K-fold cross validation by Scikit-learn,
into the Keras model.
So in other words,
we will be able to include K-fold cross validation
in our Keras classifier.
So, the first thing that we need to do
is to import all these tools, that is the wrapper
and the cross validation function by Scikit-learn,
that we will then combine.
So here we go, let's start with the Keras wrapper.
So this Keras wrapper is called Keras Classifier.
So we're gonna start here with import Keras Classifier
and this Keras Classifier wrapper is taken from
keras.wrappers.scikit-learn.
Here we go.
That's the Keras Classifier wrapper.
So let's try to import it and see if that works.
Here we go, that works
and we're already using ten (inaudible).
Great.
Now the second thing we need is of course
the K-fold cross validation function from Scikit-learn.
And so from Scikit-learn
and now we need to go to the module
that contains this function which is model selection.
We import this cross validation function that is called
Cross Val Score.
So
Cross
Val
Score.
Alright, let's try to import that as well.
Here we go, well imported.
Perfect.
So now we have all the tools we need
and so basically we're ready to start implementing
K-fold cross validation inside Keras.
And to do this were gonna use a function
because the Keras classifier that we imported here
expects for one of its arguments a function.
It's actually its first argument we will see
called Build FN, Build Function.
And this function is simply a function
that returns the classifier that we made here
with all this architecture.
So basically this function just builds the architecture
of our artificial neural network.
So here we go.
Let's start making this function.
And to define a function in Python
we start with def, for define
and then we give a name to this function
and so we're gonna call it build underscore classifier
and parenthesis
and then column
and now by pressing enter we go inside the function
and that's where we define what the function will do.
Okay, so now basically as I told you this function
builds the artificial neural network classifier.
And it will build it exactly as we built it
here in this section when making the ANN.
So basically what we only need to do
is take all the lines of code here
that builds the artificial neural network
but only the part of code that builds the architecture
not this fitting part here
that trains it with the train set.
So what we only need to take is
everything from this last line of code
to the beginning.
Here we go.
I'm copying this and I'm gonna put that
in my build classifier function.
So paste and now we need to do a little bit of cleaning.
So first let's remove the comment,
we don't need them, it was just to explain this.
Then let's take care of the indentation.
Like this, then remove this comment again.
Alright.
Indentation.
(typing)
Comment, indentation.
Here we go.
Almost ready.
Compiling the ANN, removing the comment.
And indentation, Perfect!
Now we've built our classifier but inside
this build classifier function.
Okay, so the function is almost ready, but that's not over.
This function returns something
and this something is the classifier.
So here we just need to add in the end
return classifier.
Alright.
So now not only this function builds the classifier
with the same architecture as we used before,
but also it returns it.
And now the function is ready.
We can move on to the next step
which is to wrap the whole thing.
Okay.
So now what we're gonna do is create a new classifier
that will be the global classifier variable
because the classifier that we define here
is a local variable because it is a variable
inside the function.
So this variable will only be created inside the function
when we execute this code here that defines the function.
Then, as soon as the function is defined
and we execute the next line of code,
well, the local classifier variable will no longer exist.
And so now what we can do is create a new classifier
that we're gonna also call classifier.
And this classifier will be the same classifier
as we built here but this will not be trained on
the whole training set composed of x train and y train.
It will be built through careful cross validation
on 10 different training folds
and by each time measuring the model performance
on one test fold.
So the only thing that is different between this classifier
and the one above that we built in the previous section,
is only in the training part.
Alright, so let's do it.
Let's build this new classifier train
with K-fold cross validation.
So classifier equals.
And now that's where we're gonna use the Keras classifier,
the wrapper of K-fold cross validation.
So we take our Keras classifier
which by the way is a class,
so right now we're creating an object
of the Keras classifier class
and inside this class we're gonna input the arguments.
Okay, so the first argument is, as I mentioned,
this function, the build classifier function
that builds the architecture
of our artificial neural network.
And so the name of this argument is build underscore fn,
and so this will be equal to our build classifier function.
So I'm copying this.
Here we go.
And I'm putting that as input for our build fn argument.
And this should be input this way, not inside quotes.
Alright then, next argument.
The next argument is the batch size.
Because indeed,
so far we've just built our artificial neural network
and we included this code in the build classifier function
but remember,
we didn't include this part of code that does the training.
And in this part of code, as you noticed,
there is the batch size and the number of epoch.
So that's all we need to add to specify
on how many epochs we wanna train
our artificial neural network and with which batch size.
So here we go.
Let's add these information here.
And by the way,
the name of the two arguments we need to input here
are the exact same names as the two arguments here
so we just need to copy them.
Copy and add them here.
Alright, and now we have everything we need.
We have the function that builds the architecture of the ANN
and we have the two important information for the training,
that is the number of epoch and the batch size.
Okay, but now, K-fold cross validation is still not applied.
And that's where we use Scikit-learn
and more precisely the cross val score function
by the Scikit-learn model selection module.
So, next line of code.
And let's input that.
So as you understood, the use of K-fold cross validation
is to return a relevant measure of the accuracy
of our artificial neural network on the test set
and therefore the cross val score function will return
the 10 accuracies of the 10 test folds that occur
in K-fold cross validation.
And therefore, what we need to start with
when using the cross val score function,
is to create a new variable that we're gonna call accuracies
and that will contain the 10 accuracies
returned by K-fold cross validation with K equals 10.
And so here we will add equals.
We're gonna use the cross val score function.
Here we go.
Cross val score and in parenthesis,
we need to input the several arguments.
So let's inspect this function
to see the arguments that we need to input.
Here they are, parameters, and here we go.
The first argument is
estimator.
And so what is it?
That's the object to use to fit the data.
So can you guess what it is ?
Well, that's of course, our classifier
that we just built here with Keras classifier.
So that's exactly our estimator
and therefore we need to add here
estimator equals classifier.
Perfect.
Then, next argument.
The next parameter is x and that is the data to fit.
So basically, that's the training set.
The training set from which we're gonna create
10 train test folds
on which is going to be applied K-fold cross validation.
And x is the matrix of features part of the training set
and therefore x is of course x train.
(typing)
Great.
Now the next argument is y
and y is the target variable of this same train set
and that's of course y equals y train
because of course to train a classification model
like artificial neural network
we need both x train and y train
to understand the correlations.
Alright, and now another very important parameter
that we will see below, here it is, that's cv.
And cv is basically the number of folds,
of train test folds you wanna create
when applying K-fold cross validation.
And so the choice is pretty arbitrary
but most of the time 10 folds are used
for the simple reason that we will get a relevant idea
of the accuracy if we have 10 accuracies.
With 10 accuracies we will clearly see
if we have good accuracy,
that is, If we have low bias
and if we don't have too much variance,
which is what we want.
So let's pick cv equals 10
and I recommend this number most of the time.
Alright so we could stop here
but actually there is one last argument
that we need to input and that is very important
when applying K-fold cross validation for deep learning.
This argument, this last parameter, is n jobs.
Okay, so n jobs is the number of cv used
to use to do the computation.
And minus one means all CPU's.
So why is this an important parameter ?
Well, that's because basically
the artificial neural network
that we trained in the previous section
is this time actually going to be trained 10 times
because it's going to be trained on 10 train folds.
And, you remember how it took time
to train the model on one training fold,
that was by the way the whole training set,
so imagine how mch time it will take
if we train it on 10 train folds.
And so of course we want our computations to go faster,
and that's by using the n jobs parameter
and setting it to minus one to use all the CPU's
and therefore what it will do
is run parallel computations to get this done faster.
So we will not see one training fold one at a time,
we will see the different trainings
on the different train folds run at the same time.
So that's a very important argument
and here we'll add n jobs equals minus one.
Perfect.
And that was the last argument we needed to input
in this cross val score function.
So basically we are now ready to run K-fold cross validation
so that's what we're gonna do right now.
Remember, we are doing this to check two things;
first, if the real relevance accuracy
is closer to the first one we obtained that is
rather 86% or the second one we obtained
that is rather 84%.
And then the second thing we wanna check is
where we are in the bias variance trade-off
and so we need to check that we have a low bias
and a low variance that is, high accuracies
and small differences, small variance
between these accuracies that we are about to get.
Alright.
So,
There we go.
We are ready to execute this,
however remember since I reset everything
by restoring my kernel
we need to also import the Keras libraries
because as you can see,
we used them in this K-fold cross validation codes.
And actually, I think it might be easier for you
to have them already in the code here
in case,
you know you are using K-fold cross validation directly.
Okay, so here we go.
We're going to execute this.
So it's going to take a while
because our artificial neural network
is going to be trained 10 times on the 10 train fold
and each time we're gonna measure the accuracy
on the test fold,
and that's how we're gonna get 10 accuracies.
So let's do it.
We just need to actually select all these lines
because we already executed this.
Now let's press command and control plus enter to execute.
Here we go.
It's on.
It's live.
So as you can see,
there are parallel computations right now.
We can see the same epoch running separately
on different train folds,
so that's exactly what I was telling you,
that's parallel computation.
So this is going to take a while
so I'm going to move forward to the future.
So I'll see you very soon
at the end of this K-fold cross validation.
Alright, its about to end
98,
99,
and here we go, that's over.
K-fold cross validation is over
and it seems that the accuracies are around 83%.
Let's check it out right now.
We're gonna go to variable explorer
to have a look at our vector of accuracies.
Here it is.
And indeed, the accuracies are around 83%, 84%.
So that's exactly the accuracy we obtained the second time
on the test set.
So the 86% accuracy we obtained the first time
was not relevant.
So that's why I want you to be motivated
to use K-fold cross validation.
It's to avoid that kind of trap.
This is the relevance result of performance evaluation
and if you want to have one final result,
well, the relevance accuracy would be to take the mean
of all these accuracies and of course we will then compute
the variance to see if we have high variance
or low variance.
So let's do it.
We're gonna compute the mean of these accuracies.
So let's create a new variable mean equals,
and to take the mean of this vector of accuracies,
there is nothing more simple,
we just need to take our vector accuracies
and then add a dot and then add the function mean
with parenthesis.
And this will get you the mean.
And let's also compute the variance.
So we're gonna call this variance as well
equals then again we take our accuracies vector
then dot and then to get the variance
we use the function STD with parenthesis as well.
So I'm going to select these two lines and execute.
Here we go.
We are about to get the mean,
which is of course 83.4%,
so that's what we said,
that's definitely the relevance accuracy
to evaluate our models performance
and the variance is actually quite small,
0.9%, so that's less than 1%
and therefore we have rather low variance.
So here we go.
That's where we are in the bias variance trade-off
and now we have a challenge.
Now that we know how to get the relevance accuracy
for any deep learning model,
well we're gonna take the challenge
to beat this relevance accuracy.
That means that we will try to make a better
artificial neural network to get a higher accuracy
than 83%.
We will try to go up to 86%, that will be our challenge
and we will try to make it successful
with parameter tuning.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.